Three principles of effective data communication:

- graphs that make sense. Don't have unnecessary clutter
- graphs that tell a clear story. 
- An overall narrative for your data

Order: The order the audience interprets a graph. This is different between people, but make sure that no matter what order they view a graph, it makes sense

Hierarchy: Data is complicated. Graphs can be complicated. Make sure that you highlight the right part of the data to tell the story you want

Relationships: Make sure that relationships between data is apparent based on how you design graphs
Convention: though there is no convention, sometimes things are wrong - don't do this. 

These basic rules give good guidelines for designing graphs so that the audience can understand what you are trying to convey in the most efficient way possible

Graphs

Comparison between values - bar chart

Comparison to the whole - stacked column, tree map

Change over time - line/area, column, slope

Ranking data - slope

Correlation - scatter, bubble

Geographical charts - looks like a map, kinda confusing

Measuring a target - gauge

Showing Outliers - table

“It is easy to lie with statistics. It is hard to tell the truth without it.” - Andrejs Dunkels

What do you think is meant by this statement? Numbers can be easily manipulated to fit a certain narrative. However, numbers themselves are truth, and any truth involves numbers.

Three examples:

truncated bar graph that exaggerates the difference between a poll. Start it at zero and the difference is less apparent.

3D graphs are the spawn of satan and using one will taint your data analyst soul by introducing a third dimension that doesn't do anything, making the graph harder to read. Solve by making it 2D.

using anything that isn't a bar, such a triangle, which is an evil cousin to the 3D graph bc size comparisons are difficult. Just use bars.

Pie charts are evil. If you see a pie chart, immediately judge the creator and take his/her job

What is “visualization clutter?”
anything that distracts from the main message of your visualization. (did someone say 3D?)

What are the main components of a graph?
lines, axis labels, data labels,  titles, axis names, legend

What are three techniques you learned to make data visualizations more clear?
Declutter - review every element of a graph and decide if it is necessary
Color - change what you want the audience to group through color
Format - create foreground and background through size of titles and labels

How can the use of color affect the way your visualizations are understood?
It can draw your audience's attention to the trend you want to highlight
